Mask Generation Task Guide (#28897)
huggingface/transformers: docs/source/en/tasks/mask_generation.md

</div>

## Model Inference

### Point Prompting

You can also use the model without the pipeline. To do so, initialize the model and
the processor.

```python
from transformers import SamModel, SamProcessor

device = torch.device('cuda' if torch.cuda.is_available() else 'cpu')

model = SamModel.from_pretrained("facebook/sam-vit-base").to(device)
processor = SamProcessor.from_pretrained("facebook/sam-vit-base")
```

To do point prompting, pass the input point to the processor, then take the processor output
and pass it to the model for inference. To post-process the model output, pass the outputs and
`original_sizes` and `reshaped_input_sizes` we take from the processor's initial output. We need to pass these 
since the processor resizes the image, and the output needs to be extrapolated.

```python
input_points = [[[2592, 1728]]] # point location of the bee

inputs = processor(image, input_points=input_points, return_tensors="pt").to(device)
with torch.no_grad():
    outputs = model(**inputs)
masks = processor.image_processor.post_process_masks(outputs.pred_masks.cpu(), inputs["original_sizes"].cpu(), inputs["reshaped_input_sizes"].cpu())

> 

Author: ```suggestion
```
```

```python
import torch
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
import numpy as np

fig, axes = plt.subplots(1, 4, figsize=(15, 5))

axes[0].imshow(image)
axes[0].set_title('Original Image')
mask_list = [masks[0][0][0].numpy(), masks[0][0][1].numpy(), masks[0][0][2].numpy()]

for i, mask in enumerate(mask_list, start=1):
    overlayed_image = np.array(image).copy()

    overlayed_image[:,:,0] = np.where(mask == 1, 255, overlayed_image[:,:,0])
    overlayed_image[:,:,1] = np.where(mask == 1, 0, overlayed_image[:,:,1])
    overlayed_image[:,:,2] = np.where(mask == 1, 0, overlayed_image[:,:,2])
    
    axes[i].imshow(overlayed_image)
    axes[i].set_title(f'Mask {i}')
for ax in axes:
    ax.axis('off')

plt.show()
```
<div class="flex justify-center">
     <img src="https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/transformers/tasks/masks.png" alt="Visualized"/>
</div>

### Box Prompting

You can also do box prompting in a similar fashion to point prompting. You can simply pass the input box in the format of a list
`[x_min, y_min, x_max, y_max]` format along with the image to the `processor`. Take the processor output and directly pass it 

> to the model, then postprocess the output again.

Author: ```suggestion
to the model, then post-process the output again.
```

<!--Copyright 2024 The HuggingFace Team. All rights reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
the License. You may obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software distributed under the License is distributed on
an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the License for the
specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.

⚠️ Note that this file is in Markdown but contain specific syntax for our doc-builder (similar to MDX) that may not be
rendered properly in your Markdown viewer.

-->

# Mask Generation

Mask generation is the task of generating semantically meaningful masks for an image. 
This task is very similar to [image segmentation](semantic_segmentation), but many differences exist. Image segmentation models are trained on labeled datasets and are limited to the classes they have seen during training; they return a set of masks and corresponding classes, given an image. 

> Mask generation models are trained on large amounts of data and operate in two modes. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Mask generation models are trained on large amounts of data and operate in two modes:
```

Author: I would rather not have this.

In this guide, you will learn how to:
- Infer in segment everything mode with batching,
- Infer in point prompting mode,
- Infer in box prompting mode.

First, let's install `transformers`:

```bash
pip install -q transformers
```

## Mask Generation Pipeline

The easiest way to infer mask generation models is to use the `mask-generation` pipeline.

```python
>>> from transformers import pipeline

>>> checkpoint = "facebook/sam-vit-base"
>>> mask_generator = pipeline(model=checkpoint, task="mask-generation")
```

Let's see the image.

```python
from PIL import Image
import requests

img_url = "https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/bee.jpg"
image = Image.open(requests.get(img_url, stream=True).raw).convert("RGB")
```

<div class="flex justify-center">
     <img src="https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/bee.jpg" alt="Example Image"/>
</div>

Let's segment everything. `points-per-batch` enables parallel inference of points in
segment everything mode. This enables faster inference, but consumes more memory.
Moreover, SAM only enables batching over points and not the images. `pred_iou_thresh` is

> the IoU confidence threshold where only the masks above that certain threshold are returned.

Reviewer 2: should we just not split this and leave it to the window manager?

Reviewer 2: No No i just meant that you have 4lines here
```suggestion
Let's segment everything. `points-per-batch` enables parallel inference of points in segment everything mode. This enables faster inference, but consumes more memory. Moreover, SAM only enables batching over points and not the images. `pred_iou_thresh` is the IoU confidence threshold where only the masks above that certain threshold are returned.
```

Reviewer 2: 😈

```python
masks = mask_generator(image, points_per_batch=128, pred_iou_thresh=0.88)
```

> The `masks` looks like following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `masks` looks like the following:
```

for i, mask in enumerate(masks["masks"]):
    plt.imshow(mask, cmap='viridis', alpha=0.1, vmin=0, vmax=1)

plt.axis('off')
plt.show()
```

Below is the original image in grayscale with colorful maps overlaid. Very impressive.

<div class="flex justify-center">
     <img src="https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/bee_segmented.png" alt="Visualized"/>
</div>

## Model Inference

### Point Prompting

You can also use the model without the pipeline. To do so, initialize the model and
the processor.

```python
from transformers import SamModel, SamProcessor

device = torch.device('cuda' if torch.cuda.is_available() else 'cpu')

model = SamModel.from_pretrained("facebook/sam-vit-base").to(device)
processor = SamProcessor.from_pretrained("facebook/sam-vit-base")
```

To do point prompting, pass the input point to the processor, then take the processor output
and pass it to the model for inference. To post-process the model output, pass the outputs and
`original_sizes` and `reshaped_input_sizes` we take from the processor's initial output. We need to pass these 
since processor resizes the image, and the output needs to be extrapolated.

> 
> ```
> input_points = [[[2592, 1728]]] # point location of the bee
> 
> inputs = processor(image, input_points=input_points, return_tensors="pt").to(device)
> outputs = model(**inputs)
> masks = processor.image_processor.post_process_masks(outputs.pred_masks.cpu(), inputs["original_sizes"].cpu(), inputs["reshaped_input_sizes"].cpu())
> ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```python
input_points = [[[2592, 1728]]] # point location of the bee

inputs = processor(image, input_points=input_points, return_tensors="pt").to(device)
with torch.no_grad():
    outputs = model(**inputs)
masks = processor.image_processor.post_process_masks(outputs.pred_masks.cpu(), inputs["original_sizes"].cpu(), inputs["reshaped_input_sizes"].cpu())
```
```

We can visualize the three masks in the `masks` output.

```python
import torch
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
import numpy as np

fig, axes = plt.subplots(1, 4, figsize=(15, 5))

axes[0].imshow(image)
axes[0].set_title('Original Image')
mask_list = [masks[0][0][0].numpy(), masks[0][0][1].numpy(), masks[0][0][2].numpy()]

for i, mask in enumerate(mask_list, start=1):
    overlayed_image = np.array(image).copy()

    overlayed_image[:,:,0] = np.where(mask == 1, 255, overlayed_image[:,:,0])
    overlayed_image[:,:,1] = np.where(mask == 1, 0, overlayed_image[:,:,1])
    overlayed_image[:,:,2] = np.where(mask == 1, 0, overlayed_image[:,:,2])
    
    axes[i].imshow(overlayed_image)
    axes[i].set_title(f'Mask {i}')
for ax in axes:
    ax.axis('off')

plt.show()
```
<div class="flex justify-center">
     <img src="https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/transformers/tasks/masks.png" alt="Visualized"/>
</div>

### Box Prompting

> You can also do box prompting in a similar fashion to point prompting. You can simply pass the input box in format of a list

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also do box prompting in a similar fashion to point prompting. You can simply pass the input box in the format of a list
```

`[x_min, y_min, x_max, y_max]` format along with the image to the `processor`. Take the processor output and directly pass it 

> to the model, then postprocess the output again.

Reviewer: You used "post-process" in line 138. I would keep it consistent and stick to either.

> <!--Copyright 2023 The HuggingFace Team. All rights reserved.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
<!--Copyright 2024 The HuggingFace Team. All rights reserved.
```

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
the License. You may obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software distributed under the License is distributed on
an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the License for the
specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.

⚠️ Note that this file is in Markdown but contain specific syntax for our doc-builder (similar to MDX) that may not be
rendered properly in your Markdown viewer.

-->

# Mask Generation

Mask generation is the task of generating semantically meaningful masks for an image. 

> This task is very similar to image segmentation, but many differences exist. Image segmentation models are trained

Author: I'll fix this, it should've been semantic_segmentation so

> on labeled datasets and are limited to the classes they have seen during training; they return a mask and its class, 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
on labeled datasets and are limited to the classes they have seen during training; they return a set of masks and corresponding classes, 
```

given an image. 

> Mask generation models are trained on large amounts of data, and they operate in two modes. The first one is prompting 

Author: the model is actually manually labeled with masks, semi-automatic labeled, and fully automatically labeled, however the label here doesn't imply class masks like fully supervised image segmentation. will try to put this properly

> mode. In this mode, the model takes in an image and a prompt, where a prompt can be a point location in the image within 

Author: yes it is, will clarify

an object or a bounding box surrounding an object. In prompting mode, the model only returns the mask over the object 

> that the prompt is pointing out to. The second one is the  segment everything mode. In segment everything, given an 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
that the prompt is pointing out to. The second one is the segment everything mode. In segment everything, given an 
```

image, the model generates every mask in the image. To do so, a grid of points is generated and overlaid on the image
for inference. 

Mask generation task is supported by Segment Anything Model (SAM). It's a powerful model that consists of a Vision Transformer
base image encoder, a prompt encoder, and a mask decoder. Images and prompts are encoded, and the decoder takes these 
embeddings and generates valid masks. 

<div class="flex justify-center">
     <img src="https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/blob/main/transformers/tasks/sam.png" alt="SAM Architecture"/>
</div>

SAM is very powerful and serves as a foundation model for segmentation as it has large data coverage. It is trained on 
SA-1B, a dataset with 1 million images and 1.1 billion masks. 

In this guide, we will learn how to:
- Infer in segment everything mode,
- Infer in point prompting mode,
- Infer in box prompting mode,
- Prompt batching.

First, let's install `transformers`:

```bash
pip install -q transformers
```

## Mask Generation Pipeline

> The easiest way to infer mask generation models is to use `mask-generation` pipeline.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The easiest way to infer mask generation models is to use the `mask-generation` pipeline.
```
